Ladies and gentlemen, today I, Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
would like to share with
you how we can experience
happiness in the present moment.
We can experience
happiness whether we are sitting alone or in
front of a crowd.
Please try following Tam Chieu
Hoan Quan's method:
close your eyes and listen to
the sounds around
you. Count how many sounds there are.
For example, where Tam Chieu Hoan
Quan is sitting, we can
perceive at least one type of sound
called a low, quiet sound. That is,
no sound at all. When we are sitting
somewhere else, we can
perceive the sound of cars,
people talking to
each other, but we don't pay attention to the
content of the conversation; we only hear the
sounds. We sit there and listen to
the
sounds. Then, open your eyes and
look, but look without distinguishing; just
see each thing one by one.
Then, after we've finished looking,
we start smelling, we breathe,
we breathe in, and we distinguish what
flavors and scents are around us. We recognize
all
those scents, and that's how we achieve a moment of peace. Then we
feel the sensations in
our bodies, and at that moment, we experience
happiness in the
present moment. Happiness is
enjoying the tranquility
within our hearts. Although
our ears hear, our eyes see, our noses smell, we are
in a state of calm, and all
worries and anxieties disappear in
that moment. That is
happiness. Even when we are in the
most suffering, we put it aside and
practice this way, so the suffering is
interrupted. It is suffering that causes
us to overthink, to overanalyze, and to
sow more suffering. It is these
moments of quietude that bring about happiness.  That makes
us more clear-minded; we don't
overthink or dwell on suffering.
Those moments of silence
give rise to a
desire for tranquility, a desire for stillness. This desire for stillness
has a great power that
allows us to let go. This
power of silence
allows us to generate
thoughts
that let go of
suffering. In Buddhism, this is called
meditation, but it's truly about living in the
present moment, living with the present reality
around us. Practice it
daily, practice it anytime, anywhere.
The more you practice, the
clearer your mind becomes, and the
more you transform suffering.
Your mind becomes calmer, and that will
help you think about things more
quickly, sharply, and intensely. The
mind's awareness and mindfulness must be used anytime,
anywhere, always to have those
moments. Those moments are...
Your mind becomes empty. That is
happiness. And if you practice a lot,
you will get rid of
many bad habits, for example, gossiping, talking
nonsense,
speaking ill of others, being cruel.
You will discover those troublesome things
yourself. Therefore, we
must practice living in the present moment, practicing
happiness by living
in the present moment. Then we will have a
very great capacity, and the mind will be able to fully comprehend and practice
it. We often enter into
it to enjoy that happiness. It's
called practicing meditation, but it's very
simple, isn't it? It's very simple.
We can practice at first, even for a second or
two, closing our eyes and listening to the
sound. If the mind jumps, it can't
listen anymore, it can't see anymore, so
we go back and practice again.
We
can practice anytime, anywhere, and it
makes us always have
thoughts that are very much in line with the
present moment. If someone practices a lot and
feels so much happiness, then they won't be bothered.
The mind will become less active, and especially, it will gain a
very good ability: when
people say something, your concentration
will improve, and your understanding of what
they say will be more accurate.
Today, I, Tâm Chiêu Hoàn Quán, would like to
share this with you. You
can practice this right now, immediately
after listening to Tâm Chiêu Hoàn Quán.
You will feel it, especially
those who are experiencing
inner turmoil; they will feel it
very clearly. So,
when you are studying,
thinking, or doing homework, if you have a
problem that is causing you stress, let
go of everything.
Practice this every second, every minute.
Naturally, gradually, you will become
clear-minded. If you are struggling with a
problem, practice this as well.
Feel happiness in the
present moment. In this way, you will
transform stress and everything else.
You should make it a
habit.  Once you're familiar with it and become
proficient, then we won't
have suffering; suffering
can't control us, it can't
prolong us, it can't defeat us. I'm
very happy that you've come to this
program, and this program is still
practicing the Four Noble Truths as taught by the Buddha:
preventing evil, eradicating evil, generating good, increasing good,
living in the present moment,
meaning we let go of everything and
we generate good thoughts, good minds, kind
minds, and we
greatly cultivate empty minds—that's
it, greatly cultivate non-attachment minds—then
we will be happy.
Greetings and see you again in the next program.
[music]
K